{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Roboto-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red215\green25\blue27;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c88235\c18824\c13725;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11500\viewh11820\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 About Me
\b0\fs24 \
Hello, my name is Ryan Schroeder and I am currently a senior at Michigan State University working towards my Bachelor's degree in experience architecture. Experience architecture at MSU has been around for only 2 years and centers on the user experience of the web and technology as a whole. Courses include web authoring, computer science, philosophy, research and some design with a whole bunch in between.\
I grew up in a small, tourist town in Michigan's northern lower peninsula known only for its international supply of manhole covers made by the East Jordan Iron Works. Growing up in a town with a population over half the size of a freshman class here at Michigan State came with its challenges but I just couldn't beat the critically acclaimed skiing and Mother Nature's beauty. I graduated from East Jordan High School and moved on to my dream school and the only one I ever considered going to. MSU has opened my life up to numerous opportunities including a great job at SNworks and landing an incredible internship at the second largest mortgage lender in the country, Quicken Loans.\
At SNworks I am technically a Project Manager but do and have done much more than that. SNworks is a web development company owned and operated by the State News, Michigan State's student newspaper. SNworks created a proprietary content management system that it then sells to student newspapers across the country. Not only do we offer them a world class CMS, our team of student designers and developers design, build and maintain a new website for them. Being the project manager, I oversee that whole process. I am the main contact between the developers and the client making sure everything is not only on time but is exactly what the client wants. In addition to project management, I also design the websites for our new clients as well as run our support line to fix all bugs and answer any and all questions clients may have.\
In May, I was awarded an internship position at Quicken Loans in downtown Detroit. The summer before my final year here at MSU, I worked every day for Quicken on user experience of an internal platform for our bankers and underwriters (aka, half of our 15,000 team members). At the beginning of August, because of my accomplishments over the summer, I was awarded an extension to my internship that allowed me to work remotely while I finish my college career. I continue to work for the same team as I did over the summer and have had the opportunity to create tools and resources that have been used thousands and thousands of times. \
Working at both of these organizations have opened my eyes to the world of web and all of its hidden areas. I have experience in wireframes, web design, WCAG guidelines, Agile and Waterfall management methods as well as different languages such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and PHP. If you would like to hear more about myself or any of these positions feel free to contact me.\

\b\fs28 Contact
\b0\fs24 \
Though I am very active on the internet and social media, by far the best way to contact me is through email. I have my email on every single one of my devices and will usually respond within 24 hours of your message. However, please be aware that I am still a student by day and will continue to put my education first. \

\b\fs28 Daily Cardinal
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec4 The Client\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec2 University of Wisconsin - Madison's student publication, The Daily Cardinal, came to us over the summer of 2015 to create a new website for them. The CMS (Content Management System) they were using was outdated and made their workflow unnecessarily hard. They also were looking for a new website as they transitioned from printing everyday to printing just twice a week. This was forcing them to put more focus on their digital content. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.dailycardinal.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul The Daily Cardinal (opens in a new window)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec4 The Process\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec2 The Daily Cardinal was the first project that I did the entire designs for. We didn't have a dedicated web designer at the time so I took it upon myself to create all of the necessary designs. The major issue I had to overcome during this phase was the conflicting comments from the students who were going to be using the website and the Alumni Association who was paying for it. They both wanted the website to look and feel a certain way and it caused a lot of delays.\
Once we were able to get the designs nailed down, development went smoothly. We were able to get a lot of our newer, less experienced developers on this website which was nice. A lot of the features on their website were unique to The Daily Cardinal as they wanted something that was going to set them apart from their rival paper, The Badger Herald. Nevertheless, despite the delays in the design phase, the January 2016 deadline was met without any issue.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec4 Takeaways\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec2 I really enjoyed working on this project and doing the designs. Creating the designs and being the project manager definitely made for a lot of extra work but the experience was definitely worth it. The staff at The Daily Cardinal were excited the whole way and it was a pleasure working with them. Since launching their site, they have been extremely pleased both with the design and functionality of their physical site but also Snworks' proprietary CMS.\

\b\fs28 Elon University
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec4 Client\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec2 Elon University is a small, private university in Elon, North Carolina. Elon's student newspaper, The Pendulum, came to us looking for a refresh. Their organization continued to use the print first method and neglected to focus much time on their website. With a change in organizational workflows, they decided to put their website at the front and came to us at SNworks with hopes of a much more engaging website. I was the project manager for this client and worked with them through every step of the process to ensure their new site was what they had in mind. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.elonpendulum.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Elon's The Pendulum (opens in a new window).}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec4 Process\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec2 This project was the first project that I managed on my own and it proved to be challenging mainly due to the timing. I started this project right before our summer started in April of 2015. Elon wanted this to launch, to no one's surprise, before the start of the fall semester, late August 2015. This left us just the summer to design, develop and review their new website. The biggest problem was the fact that we didn't have any dedicated developers working for us over the summer.\
Thankfully, we were able to come up with a pretty basic design that was a huge improvement over their existing site but was pretty easy for us to roll out. We designed it before our designers left for the summer and started working on the development phase using our professional staff members. We managed to get it out in time for the beginning of the fall semester and Elon was more than happy with the final product.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec4 Takeaways\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec2 In the end, the client was very happy with their new website and the whole project went very smoothly. Because this was my first solo project as a project manager, I learned a lot on how to manage projects. My communication skills definitely improved throughout this project especially with the time crunch making constant communication that much more important. I also learned a lot about quality assurance and making sure that everything was not only completed but completed how the client wanted it\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
}